Project Title: AI-Powered Offering Memorandum (OM) Builder
Objective: Scaffold a full-stack web application that allows commercial real estate professionals to create presentation-quality offering memorandums with a drag-and-drop editor, templates, and AI-generated content. The app will combine a React-based slide builder UI with a Node.js/Express backend, PostgreSQL database, and integrations for file parsing, AI text generation, and PDF export.

Tech Stack

Frontend: React (with libraries like React DnD or Interact.js for drag-and-drop)

Backend: Node.js + Express (REST API architecture)

Database: PostgreSQL (via an ORM or query builder for schema definitions)

Auth: Email/password authentication (JWT-based token auth for API routes)

AI: OpenAI GPT-4 via OpenAI API integration

File Parsing: SheetJS (xlsx) for Excel/CSV to JSON conversion

Export: Puppeteer (HTML to PDF generation); Optional: PptxGenJS for PowerPoint

Frontend (React)

Design a rich drag-and-drop slide builder UI for constructing the OM pages:

Drag & Drop Layout: Implement a grid-based canvas for each slide where users can drag, drop, and arrange elements (text boxes, images, charts, tables). Use React DnD or Interact.js to handle draggable components. Consider using a grid layout library (e.g. React-Grid-Layout) to support responsive, draggable, and resizable widgets, with the ability to serialize and restore layouts in JSON
github.com
.

Template Selection: Provide a set of pre-designed slide templates that users can choose from for each new slide (e.g. Cover Page, Executive Summary, Investment Highlights, Market Overview, Financials). Each template defines a layout structure (number of columns/sections) and placeholder element types. When a template is selected, the slide is populated with placeholder components according to that layout. Users can then edit or replace the placeholder content.

Rich Text Editor: Integrate a rich text editor component for text areas so users can format content (bold, lists, headings, etc.). For example, use a library like react-quill or Draft.js for WYSIWYG editing in text blocks. Ensure that text components on slides allow in-place editing with formatting controls (headings for section titles, bullet points for lists, etc.).

Media and Data Components: Include specialized components for images, charts, and tables:

Image components: allow image uploading or selection, with resizing and positioning on the canvas. Support common image formats and provide a placeholder image if none is uploaded.

Chart components: allow insertion of charts (bar, line, pie, etc.) driven by data (e.g. financial metrics). Use a chart library (like Chart.js via react-chartjs-2 or Recharts) to render charts. Provide dummy data or connect to uploaded financials for initial scaffolding.

Table components: allow adding tables to display data (e.g. rent rolls, financial summaries). Support basic table structure (rows, columns) and styling. For now, include a simple table component that can be populated with JSON data from the backend (such as parsed Excel data).

Grid and Alignment: Use CSS Grid or Flexbox to implement the slide layout, so elements snap to a grid for alignment. Provide guides or visual indicators to help users align text boxes, images, and other elements consistently. This ensures a clean, professional layout for each slide.

Responsive Design: Although the primary output is a PDF (fixed size), build the editor UI to handle different screen sizes. The slide canvas can have a fixed aspect ratio (e.g. letter or A4 size), but the surrounding editor should be responsive.

(The React frontend should be structured into components like SlideEditor (main canvas and controls), TemplatePicker, TextBlock, ImageBlock, ChartBlock, TableBlock, etc. This modular approach makes it easy to extend and maintain.)

Backend (Node.js + Express)

Set up an Express server with a modular RESTful API to handle authentication, project and slide management, file uploads, AI calls, and exports. Key backend functionality includes:

User Authentication: Implement user sign-up and login using email and password. Store hashed passwords (e.g. with bcrypt) in the database. Provide auth endpoints: POST /api/auth/register, POST /api/auth/login that return a JWT on success. Protect subsequent routes (projects, uploads, generation) with JWT middleware. (Support for team/org accounts can be prepared by including fields like organization_id on users and a join table for team membership, to be used in future phases.)

OM Project CRUD: Create CRUD endpoints for Offering Memorandum projects:

POST /api/projects to create a new project (an OM document) with a title and metadata.

GET /api/projects to list projects accessible to the user (later can filter by team).

GET /api/projects/:id to fetch a specific project (including its slides and content).

PUT /api/projects/:id to update project info (e.g. title).

DELETE /api/projects/:id to delete a project.

Slide and Template Management: Endpoints to manage slides within a project and to retrieve templates:

POST /api/projects/:id/slides to add a new slide to a project (with a chosen template).

GET /api/projects/:id/slides/:slideId to get one slide’s data (layout, content).

PUT /api/projects/:id/slides/:slideId to update a slide’s content or layout (save edits made in the editor).

DELETE /api/projects/:id/slides/:slideId to remove a slide.

GET /api/templates to list available slide templates (system defaults and user-defined). Templates can be stored in the database or as static JSON files and contain the structure for slides (sections, placeholder types, etc.).

File Upload API: Implement a file upload endpoint (e.g. POST /api/uploads) to handle file submissions (Excel/CSV for financial models, images for slides, PDFs for reference, etc.). Use a middleware like multer for handling multipart form data. Support multiple file types:

If an Excel/CSV is uploaded, use SheetJS (xlsx npm package) to parse the file into JSON data
stackoverflow.com
. For example, upon receiving an Excel, read the file (with XLSX.readFile or reading the buffer) and convert relevant sheets to JSON using XLSX.utils.sheet_to_json
stackoverflow.com
. This parsed data can be stored or sent back to the client to populate tables and charts.

If images are uploaded, save them to a static directory and return the URL/path so the frontend can display them on slides.

If a PDF is uploaded (perhaps as a reference OM or other document), just store it or potentially parse text if needed (could integrate in later phases).

Maintain a metadata table of uploads (file name, type, linked project or user, upload date) for reference and cleanup.

AI Content Generation API: Create an endpoint to integrate with OpenAI GPT-4 for text generation. For example, POST /api/ai/generate which accepts a payload specifying the context (e.g. generate an executive summary from given data or create market overview text for location X). This route will call the OpenAI API (using the official OpenAI Node SDK or REST call) to generate content:

Use the OpenAI Node SDK (openai npm package) for ease of integration
platform.openai.com
. Initialize the API client with an API key (store the key in an environment variable).

Support different prompt types: the request body can indicate what section to generate (summary, highlights, etc.) and include any relevant data (like parsed financial metrics or market data) to be inserted into a prompt template.

The OpenAI API response (text completion) is returned to the frontend to fill into a slide. For example, the user could click "AI Generate Executive Summary" and the frontend calls this endpoint, which returns a GPT-4 generated paragraph about the investment, based on property data.

PDF Export: Implement a PDF generation endpoint (e.g. GET /api/projects/:id/export/pdf) that uses Puppeteer to produce a high-fidelity PDF of the entire OM document. The backend can take the saved slides (HTML/CSS or a URL to a front-end route) and render them headlessly:

Use Puppeteer’s page.pdf() on an HTML page that composes all slides in order
pptr.dev
. One approach is to have a hidden route or HTML template that displays the project’s slides with proper styling for print (A4 or letter size). The endpoint launches a headless browser, loads that page, waits for rendering, and then exports to PDF.

Ensure the PDF has proper formatting (margins, page breaks between slides, etc.). This allows users to download a polished offering memorandum ready for printing or emailing.

(Optional) PPTX Export: (For a later phase) Lay the groundwork to export to PowerPoint .pptx format using PptxGenJS. This could be a separate endpoint like GET /api/projects/:id/export/pptx. Using PptxGenJS (an open-source JS library for PowerPoint), slides and their elements can be programmatically added to a PPTX file
github.com
. For now, just include a placeholder service or notes that this feature can be added, possibly by iterating over the slide JSON and using pptxgenjs to create slides and text/images in a PowerPoint file.

(Organize the backend code into routers/controllers for auth, projects, slides, templates, uploads, and exports. Use middleware for auth checks. Keep business logic (e.g., calling OpenAI or parsing Excel) in separate service modules for clarity.)

Database (PostgreSQL)

Design a relational schema in PostgreSQL to store users and OM project data. Use an ORM like Sequelize or Prisma to define models, or write raw SQL migrations. Key tables and fields:

Users: users table with fields – id (PK), email (unique), password_hash, name (optional), organization_id (for team/org grouping, nullable), created_at, updated_at. This holds user credentials and profile info.

Projects: projects table – id (PK), owner_id (FK to users), title (e.g. "123 Main St Offering Memorandum"), created_at, updated_at. Later, we can add organization_id or a join table to share projects with team members. Each project represents an OM document.

Slides: slides table – id (PK), project_id (FK to projects), template_id (FK to templates, can be NULL for custom layout), content_json (JSONB column to store the slide’s content and layout specifics), order_index (int to preserve slide order within project), created_at, updated_at. The content_json will contain the structure of elements on the slide (text, images, etc., with their properties). Storing as JSONB allows easy retrieval and potentially querying specific fields if needed.

Templates: templates table – id (PK), name (e.g. "Market Summary 2-column"), structure_json (JSONB defining layout placeholders and default styles), scope (enum: "system", "org", "user" to indicate if this is a built-in template, an organization-wide template, or a user-created template), created_by (FK to users, for custom templates), created_at. The structure JSON defines the layout grid (e.g. one-column, two-column layout), and placeholder components (like { type: "text", placeholder: "Title" } etc.). This table allows new templates to be saved and reused.

Files: files table – id (PK), project_id (FK, nullable if file not tied to a project), uploaded_by (FK to users), filename, file_type (e.g. "image/png", "application/vnd.ms-excel"), url or path (where the file is stored), uploaded_at. This logs all uploaded assets. If using cloud storage in future, store the URL; for local storage, store path on disk.

(Future) Collaborators/Teams: If planning for multi-user editing, include tables like organizations (id, name) and project_members (id, project_id, user_id, role). The project_members table can assign roles like "editor" or "viewer" for shared projects. In the initial phase, this might not be fully utilized, but structuring the DB with potential for multi-user access is advisable.

Ensure proper foreign key constraints and use transactions or cascades on deletions (e.g. deleting a project should optionally delete its slides and files). Use indexes on foreign keys for performance. For JSON columns (slide content), consider indexing keys if querying inside JSON, though likely not needed initially.

AI Features and Content Generation

Leverage GPT-4 to enhance and accelerate content creation for the offering memorandum. The application should integrate AI in the following ways:

Executive Summary Generation: Allow users to auto-generate an executive summary paragraph for the property. By providing key facts (property type, location, size, occupancy, investment opportunity), the AI endpoint can be prompted to produce a polished overview. This saves time crafting a narrative description of the deal.

Investment Highlights Bullets: For an Investment Highlights slide, use AI to turn raw data into compelling bullet points. For example, input metrics like NOI, occupancy, recent renovations, or location advantages, and have GPT-4 output a list of 3-5 concise selling points. Users can edit these as needed, but the AI provides a strong starting point.

Market Commentary: Given data about the local market (e.g. employment growth, traffic counts, demographic trends), the AI can draft commentary about the market or submarket. The app might allow input of a city or neighborhood and key stats, then generate a paragraph on market conditions (e.g., “The area has seen 5% YOY rent growth, indicating a robust demand for retail space...”).

Financial Analysis Narratives: Integrate AI to explain numbers from an uploaded underwriting Excel model. For example, after parsing the Excel, the app can ask GPT-4 to analyze the data and produce insights: “Over a 5-year hold, the project yields an IRR of X%. The debt service coverage is healthy at Y, indicating strong cashflow relative to debt obligations...”. This turns raw figures into meaningful English that can be placed in the OM’s financial section.

Layout Suggestions (AI-assisted): As a stretch feature, use AI to recommend slide layouts or content distribution. For example, if a user provides a long text, the AI could suggest splitting it into two slides, or if a lot of images are uploaded, suggest a gallery slide. Although not trivial to implement fully, the scaffold can include placeholders for this (perhaps an endpoint that classifies content or a client-side rule that uses simple AI prompt to choose template types).

Full OM Draft Generation: Provide an option to generate an entire first-draft Offering Memorandum from minimal input. For instance, the user fills a form (property address, type, key financials, tenant info, etc.) or uploads an offering summary, and the AI creates a multi-section document draft. This would involve orchestrating multiple GPT-4 calls: one to write the summary, one for market overview, one for each major section. The scaffold can prepare for this by structuring prompts for each section. (Initially, this could be a CLI or backend function that chains calls and returns a populated project with slides and content.)

Note: Each AI feature will require careful prompt engineering and possibly user confirmation. The prompt to GPT-4 should include context and data, then the response should be inserted into the corresponding slide. Also, build in content review (maybe show the AI output but allow editing before saving) to keep users in control. Rate limiting and error handling for the OpenAI API integration should be in place (e.g., handle network errors or API limits gracefully).

Export Options

Support exporting the composed offering memorandum to common formats so that users can share the finalized document:

PDF Export: The primary export path is PDF, since OMs are often distributed as PDFs. Using Puppeteer on the backend, render the React slides to an HTML and then generate a PDF. The PDF should preserve the layout, images, and styles as seen in the editor. Use page.pdf() in Puppeteer to create the PDF file
pptr.dev
, and stream it to the user for download. Ensure that each slide corresponds to a PDF page, with proper page breaks. This may involve adding a print stylesheet or page-break CSS rules in the slide templates (e.g., use @media print CSS). The result should be a high-resolution PDF suitable for printing or digital viewing.

PowerPoint Export (Optional): In later versions, offer a .pptx download. As mentioned, PptxGenJS can be used to programmatically build a PowerPoint deck from the slides data
github.com
. Each slide’s content (text, images, charts) would be added via the library’s API (text boxes, images, shapes). This feature is more advanced, so for now, the scaffold can include a placeholder function or module (e.g., generatePptx(projectId)) that is invoked by an endpoint, but it can return a “Not implemented” message or a basic PPTX with a title slide. Mark this clearly in code comments as a future enhancement.

Other Formats: (Future consideration) If needed, allow exporting individual slides as images (PNG snapshots via Puppeteer’s screenshot feature) or HTML. But these are secondary; focus on PDF (and PPTX eventually).

Collaboration-Ready Design

While the initial MVP might be single-user editing, design the architecture to be collaboration-friendly for future real-time teamwork on OMs:

Real-time Editing (Future): Plan to integrate Yjs (CRDT library) with WebSockets for live collaboration on slides. Yjs allows multiple users to edit shared data structures concurrently and efficiently merge changes
dev.to
. In the future, each slide’s content (text, positions of elements, etc.) can be a Yjs document (e.g. a Y.Map or Y.Text for each text field). A WebSocket server (using something like y-websocket or custom websockets) would broadcast changes to all clients in the same project, enabling Google Docs-style multi-user editing. To prepare for this, keep the frontend state management of slide content separated from the UI, so it can be swapped out with a synced state provider. For now, include comments or minimal hooks where a collaboration provider might plug in. For example, a context or store could be used to hold slide data, which later can be replaced with a Yjs-powered store without rewriting the entire component.

Document Locking / Awareness: Even before real-time sync is ready, define a basic mechanism for indicating if someone is editing. This could be a field in the project (e.g. is_locked, locked_by) to prevent clashing edits. In a real-time scenario, Yjs will handle merge, but some UI to show collaborator cursors or names can be planned.

Permissions Model: Define user roles and permissions for projects in anticipation of team use. For now, every project belongs to a single owner (the creator). In a team context, use a join table (e.g. project_members as noted) or share projects by inviting users. Roles can be Owner (full control, can share), Editor (can modify content), Viewer (read-only access). Implement basic check stubs in routes (e.g. only owner can delete a project, only editors can modify slides). These checks can be toggled on when multi-user is introduced.

Scalability: Ensure the backend can handle multiple projects and concurrent requests. Use caching or efficient queries for heavy operations (like Excel parsing or AI calls) if needed. Also, structure the code to allow horizontal scaling (stateless JWT auth helps; for real-time, a shared Redis or a state server might be needed for websockets). Code modularity will help move pieces to separate services if the app grows (e.g., a dedicated service for AI generation or file processing in the future).

Scalable Project Structure

Organize the codebase for clarity and ease of maintenance, so new features (AI improvements, collaboration, etc.) can be added without major refactoring:

Modular File Structure: Separate concerns by directory. For example:

frontend/ (React app) and backend/ (Express app) directories if using a monorepo style, or clearly separate the client and server in the Replit project.

In the backend, have subfolders for routes (each route file corresponding to a module, e.g. auth.js, projects.js, slides.js), controllers or services (business logic for each feature), models (database models or query files), and utils (helper functions, e.g. for OpenAI or PDF generation).

In the frontend, use a component-based folder structure. E.g., components/ containing UI components (TextEditor, ImageUploader, Chart, Table, SlideCanvas, Sidebar, etc.), pages/ for page-level components (ProjectDashboard, EditorPage), and services/ or api/ for code that calls backend endpoints. Maintain a global state (using React Context or Redux) for the current project/slides if necessary.

Templating and JSON: Store slide templates as JSON configuration files or seed data in the database. The JSON defines the layout grid and default elements. The application should include a parser/renderer that can take this JSON and produce the corresponding React components on the canvas. By using JSON for templates, adding or modifying templates doesn’t require code changes – new templates can be created via an admin UI or by importing a JSON file. (Ensure to include an example template JSON for reference in the scaffold, as shown below.)

Code Comments & Documentation: Instruct Ghostwriter to produce code that is well-commented. Key functions (like the AI integration, file parsing, PDF generation) should have comments explaining the approach, so developers coming in can quickly understand and extend them. Additionally, include a concise README summarizing how to run the app and any setup (like environment variables for OpenAI API key, etc.).

Dependency Management: The prompt should ensure the scaffold includes all necessary dependencies in package.json (Express, cors, multer, pg or an ORM, OpenAI SDK, SheetJS, Puppeteer, etc., and React libraries on the frontend). The codebase should be set up with possibly a single package.json (for a full-stack Replit) or separate ones if needed. Use environment variables for config like database URL, OpenAI API key – possibly set up a .env and use dotenv.

Testing & Quality: Optionally scaffold a basic testing setup (Jest for backend, or React Testing Library for frontend components) so the structure is ready for writing tests. This is optional for MVP, but mentioning it will encourage Ghostwriter to include at least placeholders or sample tests. Similarly, set up linting (ESLint) and formatting (Prettier) configs to ensure code consistency.

By following this structure, the project will be easier to scale and maintain. New features (like more AI capabilities or real-time editing) can be layered in without a complete rewrite, and team collaboration features can be introduced iteratively.

Example Template JSON Structure (Investment Highlights Slide)

Below is an example JSON structure for a slide template and its content. This example represents an "Investment Highlights" slide with a two-column layout. The left column contains a list of bullet-point highlights, and the right column contains an image. This JSON could serve as a template definition or a slide instance example for testing the frontend editor:

{
  "id": "template_investment_highlights",
  "name": "Investment Highlights",
  "layout": "two_column",
  "elements": [
    {
      "type": "heading",
      "content": "Investment Highlights",
      "style": "h2",
      "position": { "x": 0, "y": 0, "w": 12, "h": 1 }
    },
    {
      "type": "list",
      "style": "bullet",
      "column": 1,
      "items": [
        "Occupancy consistently above 95% for the past 5 years",
        "Located in a prime downtown area with high foot traffic",
        "Recent renovations offer significant value-add potential"
      ],
      "position": { "x": 0, "y": 1, "w": 6, "h": 4 }
    },
    {
      "type": "image",
      "column": 2,
      "src": "placeholder.jpg",
      "caption": "Exterior of the property",
      "position": { "x": 6, "y": 1, "w": 6, "h": 4 }
    }
  ]
}


In this JSON:

"layout": "two_column" indicates a preset that divides the slide into two columns of equal width.

"elements" is an array of content elements on the slide. We have a heading at the top (spanning full width), a bullet list in the left column, and an image in the right column.

Each element has a position with x, y, w, h which could correspond to grid coordinates (for a 12-column grid, the list spans columns 0-5 and the image 6-11, both starting at the same row). This is one way to define layout in JSON.

The list’s items demonstrate example bullet points that an analyst might enter for highlights. In the actual app, these would be editable in the rich text editor or a list editor component.

The image has a placeholder source; in a real scenario, it would be replaced by an uploaded image URL. The caption can be displayed below the image in smaller font.

This template serves as a stub for the frontend editor – the React app should be able to take such JSON and render a slide preview, and allow users to modify the content. It also guides the backend on how to structure the slide data stored in the database.