I’m going to describe how the financial model should work starting with a user should be able to upload documents. The documents can be profit and loss statements, rent rules, rate sheets, permits, licenses, utility bills, tax bill, etc. This will all be in one centralized upload document station yet it can be access from the financial model section or the deal workspace section. When the users in the financial model section they will be able to classify documents by what they are if it is a document that is a profit and loss statement or rent roll those will be used for the financial modeling. Any other documents that are labels will go to that financial models, respective deal, workspace, and due diligence, vault and data room. Once the user upload those documents, the system will already know what property type asset class or business type that they are working in and will be preloaded with the template departments nine items, etc. that may be applicable. The synced up AI will then study the uploaded documents parts, all the information store and save it based on the document type in the timeframe that it’s applicable to for that particular project and then it will push that data Into the holding vault for the user to review. When the user reviews the AI should’ve already brought out or filtered out total amounts in total nine items sub total amounts into subtotal line items leaving only individual line items for revenue cost a good sold in expenses. This section will also have the ability to show the user the respective dollar amounts if it’s broken down annually or monthly therefore one column or 12 columns depending on the document type that’s classified the user will be able to edit various dollar amounts by using the adjustment piece where they can either do add back for particular months of items for entire line items, varying amounts, etc. There will also be a toggle that the user can show the adjusted PNL for the non-adjusted PNL. Once approved in all line items have either been approved or rejected by the user the button to push this model to the actual model section will illuminate for syncing to the model. The user will then sync to the model, which will then push all the time frames previously uploaded, as well as adapt and absorb future time periods uploaded to show one massive, comprehensive summary proven loss statement over the time periods of the user uploaded with adjusted views and non-adjusted P&L views. This is what will then drive the pro forma based on either one year or two year three year five year seven year 10 year etc. hold. Growing by the assumptions that the user has selected in input on other tabs within the financial model for that project. This will intern Dr. all return metrics return profiles. It will absorb in an account for the debt that the user selects and applies it will apply various modeling, sensitivities, various cases, various scenarios, etc., all to filter out the returns that are customizable and dynamic based on whether a user is trying to hit X purchase price XIRR over certain hole. X amount of dollars X cap rate on year one etc.. Then graph in chart will populate to breakdown drill down detail at the department level department versus department percentage of revenue, gross profit the ability to show one model versus another model a.k.a. one asset versus another versus the user portfolio. The user will also be able to do a mock scenario of what it looks like if this asset were to be implemented into their portfolio that exists today so they can model out with those returns. Could potentially look like if everything were to just.
